Wyatt Osterling
2021-01-22
chapter 3 notes: required words 1000
I certify the work I am submitting is my original work. I have not shared nor exchanged information or materials with anyone, nor will I do so in the future.
## chapter 3 implementing classes
- ## chapter goals
	1. To become familiar with the process of implementing
	2. To be able to implement and test simple methods
	3. to understand the purpose and test simple methods
	4. to understand the purpose and use of constructors
	5. to understand how to access instance variables and local variables 
	6. to be able to write javadoc comments. 

### chapter 3.1: instance variables and encapsulation
- ### 3.1.1 instance variable
	- objects store their data in instance variables which are contained to the object
	- each object in it's it's class has own set of instance variables. These are stored locally and not accessible outside the object.
- ### 3.1.2 the methods of the counter class
	- variables in an object should be made private. 
		- private variables can only be accessed by methods. This helps prevent errors and cut down on debugging time. 
- ### 3.1.3 encapsulation
 	- abstraction is the process of hiding detail
 	- abstraction allows a programmer to use a class without understanding all of it's workings
 
 ### chapter 3.2: instance variables and encapsulation
- ### 3.2.1 specifying methods
	- before you implement a class you need to know the methods required to access it
-  ### 3.2.2 specifying methods
	-  constructors set the initial data for objects
	-  constructor name is always the same as the class name
-  ### 3.2.3 using the public interface
-  ### 3.24 commenting the public interface
	-  You should thoroughly comment code behavior
	-  Use documentation comments to describe the classes and public methods
	-  over commenting is harmless.
		-  every class
		- every method 
		- every parameter variable
		- every return value
	- While over commenting is harmless, worthless comments will only slow down the debugging process. The first step of commenting is purposeful variable naming. Many comments, such as comments explaining what a variable is used for or how it's value is determined, can be replaced with purposeful variable naming. Make sure the name is descriptive yet concise. Make it's assignment meaningful. Fitting all of the assignment code in one line may be easy or line efficient, but readability matters more. You may split up a complicated piece of an assignment, such as the determining of a sophisticate value, into another line where you first assign it to a [[#3 6 local variables]] before performing additional operations on it. When you do add comments, explain why the code exists. Variable names, method names, etc should roughly explain what it does, you should add how it contributes to the program, the way in which it is meant to be used. Then you should explain confusing code. In every program some lines are hopelessly unreadable and impossible to split apart, take care to explain each part of the line in detail, consulting with a partner if you are unsure about clarity. Finally document current errors or "unhandeled exceptions" as they are called when talking to the boss. These may be hard to fix, or not worth your time. Be sure to document them well in an easy to read manner so that in future yourself or others don't have to redebug the code. 
	### 3.3: Providing the class implementation
	- #### 3.3.1: providing instance variables
		-  instance variables are private variables. 
		- the bodies, constructors and methods are also private.
			- making all of these private cuts down on debugging time. It reduces complexity, improves with variable naming and helps make more functional programs. 
	- #### 3.3.2: providing constructors
		- a constructor has a simple job, to initialize variables
	- #### 3.3.3: providing methods
		-  when implementing a method, you should ask yours left whether it is an access or mutator method. 
### 3.4: Unit testing
- #### unit testing is testing in isolation, it verifies behavior and helps ensure compliance
- #### unit testing is done with a tester class, which includes a main method and contains statements to run methods of the class being tested. 
- Unit testing should be purposeful. The first unit test should check to see if the method returns the expected result. Further tests should stress the method to check first edge, then corner cases. Edge cases, such as attempting to use an unexpected input, should be tested for in order to make the program more flexible, if you can implement a function to handle them, or fail gracefully, such as returning a nonfatal error or asking for a new input. Corner cases, or bugs that don't occur during normal operation, are harder to test for. Putting random inputs in the program and testing them all may not discover these cases. Instead you should rely on user feedback and complaints. Furthermore, you can use pair programming where your partner only has access to your written documentation and your code, no input from you to help test for these cases. Something may not be a bug but simply a lapse in your documentation that causes confusion.
### 3.5: Problem Solving: tracing objects
- #### one important skill of successful programmers is the ability to simulate the actions of a program with pencil and paper. 
- #### Can you explain in class the point of the note card system. I don't understand when you would do this. Would you do the note cards before you write the program, while you are writing it or during debugging? Thank you and I hope to hear a response soon.
### 3.6: local variables
- #### A garbage collector periodically reclaims objects and local variables that are no longer used
	- local variables are cleared after they are no longer needed. 
- #### local variables are useful for reducing conflict. They don't interfere with other local variables out of their context, and will be cleared by the garbage collector when they are no longer in use
### 3.7  The this reference 
- #### When calling an object the object is called an implicit parameter. 
	- all other parameters are called explicit parameters
	- use of an instance variable name will create an implicit parameter
- #### The this state allows you  access the instance variable. 
	- you can make a method without a parameter. These re called invisible parameters. 