I certify the work I am submitting is my original work. I have not shared nor exchanged information or materials with anyone, nor will I do so in the future.

# chapter 1
## 1.1 computer programs
- computers are great at doing many tasks and are extremely flexible in what they can do. 
- A computer stores persistent data, your  files, performs io tasks, and executes programs. 
- a computer program tells the computer what to do.
- While modern programs are extremely complex, they are made up of simple instructions. 
- creating programs is called programming. 
- computers are very good at tasks humans may not want to do, namely repetitive tasks especially using large amounts of data. 
## 1.2 anatomy of a computer
- the cpu is the heart of the computer. 
- Modern cpus can have several hundred million transistors. 
- the cpu carries out io(input and output) and processing tasks. It handles everything you computer need sto function.  
- memory provides non persistently, very fast storage used for caching information.
- persistent storage, such as an hdd or ssd, stores information meant to be saved for future use. An ssd is faster than a hdd. 
- The user interacts with input devices and receives information from output devices. 
- some computers only interact with local resources, while some interact with other resources connected by networks.
- in some situations network and local resources may be accessed in a similar manner. 
- Programs use io resources to take inputs, cpu processing resources to transform them, and output resources to display the results. 
## 1.3 The java Programming language
- in order for humans to make programs we need high-level programming languages that translate into machine code. 
- java was created to run programs anywhere through the use of applets. 
- java is easier to code in than c++ which increased it's rate of adoption. It is very commonly used and a staple of general programming 
- java code can run independently from operating system dependencies making it highly portable. This is good for beginners that won't need to learn operating system specific functions and commercial products that can easily run on any operating system. 
- java code runs inside of the jvm, a virtual machine that emulates a cpu. The jvm code is specific to the operating system, but allows the code running ontop of it to not be specific. 
- java libraries are large and complex, you will never understand all of them. instead you focus on the ones useful to you
## 1.4 becoming familiar with your programming environment. 
- we are using replit and made the simple program. replit is a ide with the ability to run java code. 
- the java compiler translates the source files in to class files which can be run by the jvm.
- java programs can span multiple files and folders, allowing for easy organization of the program. 
## 1.5 analyzing your first program
- When you declare a class you can make it either private or public. 
- you declare methods; the main method being the one originally ran. 
- all lines of java code end in a semicolon
- java requires alot of lines of code to accomplish a simple task
## 1.6 errors
- compile-time errors happen when you compile the program
	- compile-time errors are often syntax errors. 
- run-time errors are errors that occur when you 
	1. make logic errors
	2. attempt impossible tasks, such as dividing by zero.
- logic errors can be hard to fix and you may spend many hours diagnosing them. 
## 1.7 problem solving: algorithm design
- computers can only solve problems that are
	1. unambiguous
	2. executable
	3. terminating. 
- A problem that matches the above criteria can be solved by an algorithm. 
- a problem that does not match the above does not have a clear answer. Computers can provide a range of answers similar to what you want, but incapable of finding the best answer for you.  
- Programs can be prototyped using pseudocode. 
	- pseudocode is meant to be read by humans, it can not turned into computer code. The advantage to writing prototypes in pseudocode is that it is easy to understand which makes runtime logic errors easy to spot. 
	- there is no strict rules on how to write pseudocode, the most important thing is to be consistent. It is meant to be read by humans, it should be easy to understand and specific in it's function. 
- Your algorithm or pseudocode can be transformed into a program. The program will use simple logic to produce the desired answer. 
	- A programmer is the person who comes up with the algorithm and translates it into code. 