I certify the work I am submitting is my original work. I have not shared nor exchanged information or materials with anyone, nor will I do so in the future.
# chapter two notes
## building a program
- Programs are put together from smaller building blocks

	- in java these blocks are called objects, objects are like 
- An object is an entity you can manipulate by calling one or more of its methods. 
	- a method consists of a sequence of instructions that can access the internal data of an object.
		- an example of an object is System.out. inside of System.out are the methods print and println. 
- When you define a string, such as "hello world", you are creating an object of the string class. 
-  objects of different classes have different behavior and different roles
## variables
-  Use variables to store information for later use. This is useful for connecting objects
-  the type comes before the variable name. 

-  There are different types of numbers, floating point and integer. 
	-  integers are used for whole numbers
		-  declared with 
			1. int
			
			3. long
			4. byte
			5. short
	-  floating point is used for fractional numbers
		-  declared with
			1. float
		
			3. double
	- there is also a special type of number called a boolean which stores a 1 or 0 representing true and false respectfully  
- You declare text using the String type 
- you can reassign variables using variable equals value, don't reassign it's type and be sure your reassigning it to the correct type. 
- on the right of the equals sign you can do any math, such as x = x + 1
### naming variables
- variables should use a descriptive name with a readable casing such as camel case.

- names are case sensitive.
- you can not use reserved words such as double or class as variable names.
- names cannot start with a number
- names cannot contain spaces.
- you cannot use a reserved word as a name. 
- you cannot use symbols such as / in variable names.   
## Comments
- you should add comments to your programs to manage their complexity. 
	- complex programs often include ambiguous sections whose functionality is not immediately apparent. Including a comment of what the section contributes to the program, the data transformations, expected inputs, possible errors, future plans
- comments are denoted with // for single line comments
- for multiline comments use /* */
